# The Phoenix Project

## Opinion
Great book - I highlighted the shit out of my copy

## Grade: A

## Points of note

Characters (only those in these notes):
  Dick - CFO
  Erik - Prospective member of Board of Directors. Bill’s mentor and a master of Lean Manufacturing and DevOps philosophy.
  Bill - VP of IT Ops (formerly Director of Midrange Technology Operations)
    Wes - Director of Distributed Technology Ops
    Patty - Director of IT Service Support
John - Chief Security Information Officer
Brent - Technical guru. Everybody in the company goes to him to fix their problem

Quote | Page 
--- | --- 
A ‘change’ is any activity that is physical, logical, or virtual to applications, databases, operating systems, networks, or hardware that could impact services being delivered | 81
If you think IT Operations has nothing to learn from Plant Operations, you’re wrong. Dead wrong. Your job as VP of IT Operations is to ensure the fast, predictable, and uninterrupted flow of planned work that delivers value to the business while minimizing the impact and disruption of unplanned work, so you can provide stable, predictable and secure IT service. | 91
You must figure out how to control the release of work into IT Operations and, more importantly, ensure that your most constrained resources are doing only the work that serves the goal of the entire system, not just one silo. | 91
**The First Way** - Helps to understand how to create fast flow of work as it moves from Development to IT Operations, because that’s what’s between the business and the customer. <br /> **The Second Way** - Shows us how to shorten and amplify feedback loops, so we can fix quality at the source and avoid rework <br /> **The Third Way** - Shows us how to create a culture that simultaneously fosters experimentation, learning from failure, and understanding that repetition and practice are the prerequisites to mastery | 91
Standard Changes - Low-risk changes that ITIL calls ‘standard changes’. For changes we’ve done many times before successfully, we just pre approve. They still need to be submitted but they can be scheduled without us | 102
Take John’s tokenization application. Before that change request would even come to us, I would expect him to get the nod from the application and database owners, and also the business. If he’s done that, that’s good enough for me. I view our role as making sure that he’s dotted the i’s and crossed the t’s. At this level I care more about the integrity of the process, not so much about the actual changes | 102
For the ‘messy middle changes’, we’re deciding that the change submitter has responsibility and accountability or consulting and getting approval from people potentially affected. Once they do that, they submit their change card for us to review and approve for scheduling | 102
I want you to host practice incident calls and fire drills every two weeks. We need to get everyone used to solving problems in a methodical way. If we can’t do this during a prearranged drill, how can we expect people to do it during an emergency | 107
Unplanned work is the most destructive type of work.
So much of what I’ve been trying to do during my short tenure as VP of IT Operations is to prevent unplanned work from happening: coordinating changes better so they don’t fail, ensuring the orderly handling of incidents and outages to prevent interrupting key resources, etc. I’ve been doing it mostly by instinct | 159
Unplanned work is recovery work, which almost always takes you away from your goals. That’s why it’s so important to know where your unplanned work is coming from. | 161
**Four types of work:**<br /> 1. Business projects <br /> 2. Internal projects <br /> 3. Change work <br /> 4. Unplanned work <br /> Being able to take needless work out the system is more important than being able to put more work into the system. To do that, you need to know what matters to the achievement of the business objectives, whether it’s projects, operations, strategy, compliance, security or whatever. | 164
Outcomes are what matter - not the process, controls, or, for that matter, what work you complete | 164
I don’t want guesswork. I want hypotheses backed up with facts | 167
IT is not just a department. IT is a competency that we need to gain as an entire company | 186
Erik asked on what basis do we decide whether we can accept a new project. When I said that I didn’t know, he took me on another tour of the manufacturing plant. He took me to Allie, the Manufacturing Resource Planning Coordinator, and asked her how she decides on whether to accept a new order. <br /> <br />  She said that she would first look at the order and then look at the bill of materials and routings. Based on that, she would look at the loadings of the relevant work centers in the plan and then decide whether accepting the order would jeopardize any existing commitments. <br /> <br /> Erik asked me how we made the same type of decisions in IT. I told him I don’t know. I’m pretty sure we don’t do any sort of analysis of capacity and demand before we accept work. Which means we’re always scrambling, having to take shortcuts, which means more fragile applications in production. Which means more unplanned work in the future. <br /> <br /> To my surprise, Erik interrupts. “Well put Bill, you’re just described ‘technical debt’ that is not being paid down. If an organization doesn’t pay down its technical debt, every calorie in the organization can be spent just paying interest, in the form of unplanned work" | 195
You have no idea what capacity you actually have<br /> To fix your problem, you need to do a lot more than just learning how to say no. That’s the tip of the iceberg. | 197
My guys are routinely strong-armed into doing pet-projects by almost every manager in this company. I think we need an e-mail from you to the entire company, not only explaining why you’re doing this, but what the consequences will be if someone tries to put unauthorized work in the system | 201
You’ve obviously put our discussions about constraints into practice and are doing everything you can to protect that constraint from being hit by unplanned work. You're asking some very important questions about about the First Way and how you manage your flow of planed work. Until you can do that, you can’t really manage much of anything, can you? | 207
Erik: Tell me again which work centers you’ve determined to be the constraints in your organization? <br /> <br /> Bill: Brent. <br /> <br /> Erik: Get serious. I asked you what work centers are your constraints. Think. <br /> <br /> Bill: Brent is a worker, not a work center. And I’m betting that Brent is probably a worker supporting way too many work centers. Which is why he’s a constraint. <br /> <br /> Erik: Now we’re getting somewhere! Imagine if 25% of all the work centers down there (factory floor) could only be operated by one person named Brent. What would happen to the flow of work? <br /> <br /> Bill: Work wouldn’t complete on time, because Brent can only be at one work center at a time.. That’s exactly what’s happening with us. I know that for a bunch of our planned changes, work can’t even start if Brent isn’t on hand. When that happens, we’ll escalate to Brent, telling him to drop whatever he’s doing, so some other work center can get going. We’ll be lucky if he can stay there long enough for the change to be completely implemented before he’s interrupted by someone else. | 209
Every Work Center is made up of four things: <br /> 1. Machine<br /> 2. People<br /> 3. Method<br /> 4. Mesures<br /> | 209
To get a handle on capacity and demand you need to know: <br /> 1. Bill of materials (prerequisites of what is needed before you can complete the work, e.g. requirements) <br /> 2. List of required work centers and routing <br /> 3. Work orders <br /> 4. Resources | 212
Total Productive Maintenance (TPM), which has been embraced by the Lean Community. TPM insists that we do whatever takes to issue machine availability by elevating maintenance. Improving daily work is even more important that doing daily work. | 212
A critical part of the Second Way is making wait times visible, so you know when your work spends days sitting in someone’s queue. | 213
This should be your guiding principle: You win when you protect the organization without putting meaningless work into the IT system.<br /> And you win even more when you can take meaningless work out of the IT system | 221
A “turn” is when the line moves forward and backwards to get something done <br /><br /> We’re putting checklists everywhere, especially when we do handoffs within the team.<br /><br />Let’s keep these time estimates to ourselves for now. If you can generate a week’s track record of hitting the dates, then let’s start publishing this to all the requesters and their managers (John - LOL. This sounds just like our 2018 Service Level Target theme). Imagine what this will do to user satisfaction if we could tell them when they make the request how long the queue is, tell them to the day when they’ll get it, and actually hit that date | 227
Color coding cards on the Kanban board. We’ve got to have some way to make sure we’re working on the most important things. | 228
We have two project queues we need to sequence: business and internal projects. We have the top five most important projects identified, as ranked by all the project sponsors. Four of these will require some work from Brent.<br /> <br />Now to there hard part. We’re still struggling on how to prioritize our own seventy three internal projects. We’ve spent weeks trying to establish some sort of relative importance level but all we do is argue. The projects fall into the following categories: replacing fragile infrastructure, vendor upgrades, or supporting some internal business requirement. The rest are a hodgepodge of audit and security work, data center upgrade work and so forth.<br /><br />Bill: I don’t care how important everyone thinks their project is. We need to know whether it increases our capacity at our constraint, which is still Brent. Unless the project reduces his workload or enables someone else to take it over, maybe we shouldn’t even be doing it. | 229
Here’s another thing we can learn from manufacturing. We’re doing what Manufacturing Production Control Departments do. They’re the people that schedule and oversee all of production to ensure they can meet customer demand. When they accept an order, they confirm there’s enough capacity and necessary inputs at each required work center, expediting work when necessary. They work with the sales manager and plant manager to build a production schedule so they can deliver on all their commitments | 231
Twenty steps involving at least six different teams. This would still be happening even if it were virtualized. We’re losing days at each handoff. | 234
Wait time - % Busy / %Idle <br /> <br />In other words, if a resource is 50% busy, then it’s 50% idle. The wait time is one unit of time. Let’s call it one hour. So, on average, our task would wait in the queue for one hour before it gets worked. On the other hand, if a resource is 90% busy, the wait time is 90/10 or 9 hours. So our task would wait in the queue nine times longer than if the resource were 50% idle. And if a resource is 99% busy then the wait time is ninety-nine times longer than if it were 50% busy. <br /><br />So, for the Phoenix task, assuming we have seven handoffs and that each of those resources if busy ninety percent of the time, the tasks would spend in queue a total of nine hours times the seven steps, or 63 hours of wait time. | 235
Patty proposed a new role, a combination of a project manger and expediter. This would ensure fast and effective handoffs of any completed work to the next work center. <br /><br /> In Lean Manufacturing this role is called Mizusumashi or Waterstrider (or water spider). Someone who is responsible for maintaining correct inventories on the production line | 237
All made possible because we had a winning strategy, and also because we had the right plan and the ability to operate and execute | 248
Finance can hit all our objectives and the company can still fail.<br /><br />Startled, I realize he’s talking about Erik’s First Way. He’s talking about systems thinking, always confirming that the entire organization achieves its goal, not just one part of it. | 249
Most important company goals. I look at this slide every single day:<br /><br />* Understanding customer: Do we know what to build?<br />* Products: Do we have the right products?<br />* R&D: Can we build it effectively?<br />* Time to market: Can we ship it soon enough to matter?<br />* Sales pipeline: Can we convert products to interested prospects?<br />* Are we effective?<br />* Customer retention: Are we gaining or losing customers? Are customers getting what we promised them? | 250
Everyone knows that one factor jeopardizing on-time delivery is vehicle breakdowns. A key causal factor for breakdowns is failure to change the oil. So, to mitigate that risk, you’d create an SLA for vehicle operations to change the oil every five thousand miles. <br /><br />Our organizational KPI is on-time delivery. So to achieve it, you would create a new forward-looking KPI of, say, the percentage of vehicles that have had their required oil changes performed. After all, if only 50% of our vehicles are complying with the policy, it’s a good bet that in the near future our on-time delivery KPIs are going to take a dive. <br />You’ll be ready for your meeting with Dick when you’ve built out the value chains, linking his objectives to how IT jeopardizes it | 254
Predictable funnel of work. <br /><br />One sales person missing their number rarely jeopardizes the entire department. Not the other hand, Andy of my engineers can get me fired by making a seemingly small, harmless change that results in a crippling, enterprise-wide outage | 256
We are clueless about what our sutlers want! We have too much product that will never sell and never enough of the ones that do | 257
We have change control policies, but as you know, training and trust only go so far - at some point we need monitoring to enforce those policies | 258
Our data quality is so bad that we can’t rely on it to do any sort of forecasting | 260
The longer the product development cycle, the longer the company capital is locked up and not giving us a return. Dick expects that on average, our R&D investments return more than ten percent. That’s the internal hurdle rate. If we don’t beat the hurdle rate, the company capital would have been better spent being invested in the stock market.<br />
When R&D capital is locked up as WIP for more than a year, not returning cash back to the business, it becomes almost impossible to pay back the business | 261
The example Erik gave you is perfect. They integrated ‘compliance and vehicle maintenance procedures’ as a leading indicator for ‘on-time delivery’ and ‘customer retention’. We need to do the same.<br />For the phone and MRP systems, we quickly establish that the predictive measures include compliance with the change management process, supervision and review of production changes, completion of scheduled maintenance, and elimination of all known single points of failure | 266
The operational risks imposed by IT need to be managed just like any other business risk. In other words, they’re not the IT risks. They’re business risks.<br /><br />We need to get the business risks posed by IT better defined and agreed upon and then propose to you a way to integrate those risks into leading indicators of performance. Our goal is not just to improve business performance but to get earlier indicators of whether we’re going to achieve them or not, so we can take appropriate action.<br /><br />We’re going way too slowly, with too much WIP and too many features in flight. We need to make our release smaller and shorter and deliver cash back faster, so we can beat the internal hurdle rate. | 268
She found that we would detect errors in a manual reconciliation step. When this happens, she knew the upstream IT systems should be out of scope of the audit. The control being relied upon to detect material errors in the manual reconciliation step, not in the upstream IT systems. | 270
IT Operations work is very similar to plant work.<br /><br />Steps to mastering the First Way include curbing the handoffs of defects to downstream work centers, managing the flow of work, setting the tempo by our constraints, and, based on our results from audit and from Dick, we’re understanding better than we ever have what is important versus what is not | 275
It seems to me that if anyone is managing IT without talking about the Three Ways, they are manage IT on dangerously faulty assumptions | 276
We have too many cooks in the kitchen and no one accountable for maintaining the integrity of the data<br /><br />If a team needs to outsource a project to make them more productive then do it. It’s probably safe as long as it doesn’t interface with an existing business system, store confidential data, affect financial reporting or whatever. But if it does, then we need to be involved and at least confirm that it doesn’t impact any of our existing commitments. <br /><br />John: I agree. Want me to take the first stab at that outsourced IT service policy document? | 277
You’re absolutely entitled to go outside of the company to fulfill your business needs if we can’t deliver, as long as we make the decision understanding how it might jeopardize another part of the enterprise | 284
Now you must prove that you can master the Second Way, creating constant feedback loops from IT Operations back into Development, designing quality into the product at the earliest stages. To do that, you can’t have nine-month long releases. You need much faster feedback.<br /><br />In any system of work, the theoretical ideal is single-piece flow, which maximizes throughput and minimizes variance. You get there by continually reducing batch sizes<br /><br />The flow of work should only go forward. When work goes backwards, it’s waste | 285
What did they do? They closely observed all the steps required to do the changeover, and then put in a series of preparations and improvements that brought the changeover time down to under ten minutes. And that, of course, is where the legendary ‘single minute exchange of die’ term comes from.<br /><br />Then we had a crazy idea: Maybe we could do the paining and curing in a single machine. We combined four work centers into one, eliminating over thirty manual, error-prone steps, completely automating the work cycle, achieving single-piece flow, and eliminating all that setup time. Throughput went through the roof | 296
Until code is in production, no value is actually being generated, because it’s merely WIP stuck in the system. He kept reducing the batch size, enabling fast feature flow. He automated build and deployment processes, recognizing that infrastructure could be treated as code. This is idea is now called Continuous Delivery. Eric Ties then showed us how this capability can help the business learn and win in his Lean Startup work. | 297
Business agility is not just about raw speed. It’s about how good you are at detecting and responding to changes in the market and being able to take larger and more calculated risks.<br /><br />If you can’t out-experiment and beat your competitors in time to market and agility, you are sunk. Features are always a gamble. If you’re lucky, ten percent will get the desired benefits. So the faster you can get those features to market and res them, the better off you’ll be | 298
Just how many steps are in the entire end-to-end deployment process? Are we talking about twenty steps, two hundred or two thousand? | 300
Even though you can’t see our work like in a manufacturing plant, it’s still a Value Stream | 303
On the manufacturing floor, whenever we see work go backward, that’s rework. When that happens, you can bet that the amount of documentation and information flow is going to be pretty poor, which means nothing is reproducible and that it’s going to get worse over time as we try to go faster. They call this ‘non-value add’ activity or ‘waste' | 305
One of John’s security engineers interrupts, “Sending our customer data to the cloud may have some risks like accidental disclosure of private data or someone unauthorized hacking into those compete servers”.<br /><br />Bill: Good thinking. Can you list your top risks we should be thinking about, and prepare a list of potential countermeasures and controls? | 316
But the notion of having to keep up with ten deploys a day? Complete lunacy! But after being forced to automated our security testing, and integrating it into the same process that is used for automated QA testing, we’re testing every time a developer commits code. We now have better visibility and code coverage than any of the other applications in the company!”<br /><br />John note - This describes DevSecOps | 320
Because the batch size is so much smaller, we can make small changes very quickly. We’re now doing A/B testing all the time. In short, we’ve never been able to respond to the market this quickly<br /><br />John note - Small batch size, automation and continuous delivery allows you to be agile and deliver to business needs in a dynamic environment. | 323
My group hit our target of spending 15% of our time on preventative infrastructure projects.<br /><br />We’re using the entire budget we’ve been allocated. We’re closing our monitoring gaps, we’ve refactored or replaced our top ten fragile artifacts so that they’re more stable, and the flow of planned work is faster than ever.<br /><br />I don’t want posters about quality and security. I want improvement of our daily work showing up where it needs to be: in our daily work | 329
Here are Parts Unlimited, we don’t have a centralized reading or math department - we expect everyone we hire to have some mastery of it. Understanding what technology can and can’t do has become a core competency that every part of this business must have. | 331
In ten years, I’m certain every COO worth their salt will have come from IT. Any COO who doesn’t intimately understand the IT systems and actually run the business is just an empty suit, relaying on someone else to do their job. | 333
I’ve long believed that to effectively manage IT is not only a critical competency but a significant predictor of company performance. One of these days, I’d like to create a hedge fund that invests in companies, taking long positions on companies with great IT organizations that help the business win, and short the companies where IT lets everyone down | 335